Accessibility LinksSkip to content
Search The Times and The Sunday Times
Search


VIDEO
French accuse Priti Patel of ‘blackmail’ on Channel migrants
Rift deepens over threats to block boats and withhold money
updated
Matt Dathan, Home Affairs Editor | Adam Sage | Steven Swinford, Political Editor | Eleni Courea
Thursday September 09 2021, 11.30am, The Times
A child is helped ashore from the Border Force boat BF Hurricane in Dover yesterday
A child is helped ashore from the Border Force boat BF Hurricane in Dover yesterday
PETER NICHOLLS/REUTERS
France has accused Britain of “financial blackmail” over the migrant crisis as a diplomatic rift between the countries deepens.

Gérald Darmanin, the French interior minister, publicly rebuked his counterpart Priti Patel this morning, referencing her threat to withhold £54 million from France if Channel crossings continue to escalate.

SPONSORED


Darminin and Patel met in London yesterday for what were described in Paris as “very tense” talks over British demands for French police to stop more boats. She has offered to pay £54 million to France to double their patrols of the shoreline but threatened to withhold this if the country’s authorities fail to hit a rate of 75 per cent.

“France will not accept any practices that are contrary to maritime law, nor any financial blackmail,”

Continue reading
Get unlimited digital access on any device.

Start your free trial
Already a subscriber? Login


BACK TO TOP

GET IN TOUCH
About us
Contact us
Help
The Times Editorial Complaints
The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints
Place an announcement
Classified advertising
Display advertising
The Times corrections
The Sunday Times corrections
Careers
MORE FROM THE TIMES AND THE SUNDAY TIMES
The Times e-paper
The Sunday Times e-paper
Times Currency Services
The Sunday Times Wine Club
Times Print Gallery
The Times Archive
Times Crossword Club
Sunday Times Driving
Times+
The Sunday Times Rich List
Times Expert Traveller
Good University Guide
Schools Guide
Newsletters
Best Places to Live
Best Places to Stay
Sportswomen of the Year Awards
Times Appointments
Podcasts
Times Money Mentor
© Times Newspapers Limited 2021.

Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.

Privacy & cookie policy
Licensing
Cookie settings
Site map
Topics
Commissioning terms
Terms and conditions
IPSO logo
