French accuse Patel of migrant ‘blackmail’
Rift deepens over threats to block boats and withhold money

updated
France has accused Britain of “financial blackmail” over the migrant crisis as a diplomatic rift between the countries deepens. Gérald Darmanin, the French interior minister, publicly rebuked his counterpart Priti Patel this morning, referencing her threat to withhold £54 million from France if...
Read the full story
NHS must justify its £270,000 pay deals, says care minister
updated
The NHS must explain the “exceptionally high levels of pay” given to senior managers, the care minister has said. Helen Whately outlined her concerns after it emerged that the health service was hiring dozens of senior managers on salaries of up to £270,000, at a time when the government has announced billions more in funding to help it...
Read the full story
Nicholas Soames with his grandfather, Winston Churchill. He said that the family wholly admired the charity’s work
Churchill grandson defends charity that challenged his racist views
new
Winston Churchill’s grandson has spoken in support of a charity that bears the wartime leader’s name after allegations by volunteers that it was seeking to distance itself from him. Sir Nicholas Soames, who was a Conservative MP from 1983 until the 2019 general election, said that the Churchill Fellowship had...
Read the full story
US OPEN | MATTHEW SYED
Much more than a semi-final awaits Raducanu — she is ready
Raducanu’s increasing profile will bring with it fresh challenges — but she is more than up to the task

VIDEO
Tory tax revolt quelled but would-be rebels warn of ‘massive damage’

POLITICAL SKETCH
For whom the bull tolls: barbs fly amid tumult
Eight per cent of NHS workers, equivalent to 116,717, have not received their first dose of a coronavirus vaccine
CORONAVIRUS
Unjabbed NHS workers to be barred from seeing patients
The average traveller pays more than £70 for PCR tests, doubling the cost of a trip from some regions
CORONAVIRUS
PCR tests for vaccinated travellers ‘to be dropped’
KPMG aims for a third of its staff to be working class
The accounting and consulting firm KPMG has become the first big business in Britain to set a target for the number of working-class staff. It is aiming for 29 per cent of its partners and directors to come from the social...
Read the full story
Lorry drivers will get fast-track tests to avoid Christmas chaos
The government will streamline HGV driver testing to prevent a supply chain crisis at Christmas, it has been reported. Ministers are drawing up plans to fast-track tests for new drivers amid labour shortages that have...
Read the full story
Les McKeown in 1992 in Mainz, Germany. He had a fatal cardiac arrest in April
Drink and drugs contributed to Bay City Roller’s death
new
Scott Morrison, the Australian prime minister, will not commit to targeting net-zero emissions by 2050
Climate promises dropped from UK-Australia deal
show more

Comment
We have learnt the wrong lessons from 9/11
david aaronovitch

The supposed failings of the War on Terror and nation building mean we wouldn’t even intervene in another Rwanda




IAIN MARTIN
Tories are no longer the party of business

MAX HASTINGS
Charles can only succeed if he learns humility

JANICE TURNER | NOTEBOOK
Never before has being abroad felt so liberating

JAWAD IQBAL
Hollywood should stop self-censoring to appease China
show more

SPONSORED




World
ANTHONY LOYD
‘My family is starving, I have to sell my daughter’
Few items of Afghan lives are left unsold in Jada-e Maiwand. So fast is the rush to sell and flee or, more simply, to sell and survive amid the plug-hole gurgle of the country’s diminishing economy, that the heaving bazaar of personal belongings has spilt from its usual confines along the famed...
Read the full story
Taliban expected to let 200 foreigners fly from Kabul
The Taliban have agreed to let 200 American civilians and other foreigners depart on charter flights from Kabul airport, according to an official. The departures were expected today after a request by Zalmay Khalilzad, the American special representative to Afghanistan. It was unclear whether those due to leave were among people...
Read the full story
Shuren Qin admitted he did not have the licence to export the hydrophones, which can be used to detect submarines
Businessman jailed for exporting military tech
new
A Chinese businessman has been jailed for two years in the United States after admitting illegally exporting marine technology with military applications to China. Shuren Qin, 45, is a Chinese citizen who emigrated to the US in 2014 and was a permanent resident. He set up a company through which he exported goods...
Read the full story
VIDEO
Biosuits not ballistics as North Korea tones down military parade
new

The USS Benfold has moved into the South China Sea to demonstrate the US’s rejection of Chinese sovereignty
You won’t stop us sailing in disputed waters, US warns China
A protester makes a stand against the state’s draconian new law at the capitol in Austin, Texas
Biden administration to sue Texas over abortion law
Smoke and the smell of burning plastic from the Russian module was related to batteries being charged overnight, the Russian space agency said
Smoke alert on space station as crew smell burning
new
George Foreman, Donald Trump and Evander Holyfield in 1991 in Atlantic City
Ringmaster Trump gets ready to rumble
show more
Business
888 buys William Hill’s European arm for £2.2bn
888 Holdings hailed the creation of “a global online betting and gaming leader” after agreeing a £2.2 billion acquisition of William Hill International. It said it expected the deal to deliver at least £100 million of annual cost synergies, creating a company with proforma underlying earnings...
Read the full story
EasyJet rejects takeover offer and looks to raise £1.2bn
EasyJet said it had rejected a takeover offer as it announced plans to raise £1.2 billion from investors to bolster its finance to withstand a more prolonged downturn in the travel market. The low-cost airline said that the all-share takeover approach was low premium, highly conditional and undervalued the company. It said the unnamed...
Read the full story
The supermarket chain’s first-half results were hit by higher costs caused by Covid-19 preparations and suffered in comparison with the previous year when food hoarding increased sales
Morrisons profits slump as it prepares for takeover auction
Wm Morrison has reported a slide in profits as the supermarket chain at the centre of a £7 billion bidding war reeled from the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic. First-half pre-tax profits at the grocer slid by 43.4 per cent to £82 million, knocked by higher costs caused by Covid-19 and lost profit from cafés...
Read the full story
Saints alive! The St Michael label is back at M&S
The St Michael label was once found on hundreds of M&amp;S products
Elizabeth Holmes, the Theranos founder, arrives at court in San Jose, California, yesterday with her partner Billy Evans, a hotels heir, for the start of her trial on charges of federal wire fraud and conspiracy
Holmes ‘lied and cheated to keep Theranos afloat’
Samir Desai said he will leave at the end of the year and hand over to Lisa Jacobs, who runs the lender’s British arm
Funding Circle co-founder to quit after taking it to profit
new
Business_-__Patrick_Hosking__Head_.jpg
Class war is luxury few can afford
KPMG’s decision to set foot on to the delicate territory of class is brave. The accounting firm has set itself a...
Read the full story

COMMENT
Taxing jobs now imposes another unnecessary shock to the system
What a strange moment the government chose to introduce a tax on jobs. The news has been filled for weeks with...
Read the full story
show more
Sport
US OPEN
I’m not favourite to beat Raducanu, insists powerful and in-form Sakkari
Emma Raducanu stands only two victories away from the most astonishing grand-slam triumph by a British player in history. The fearless 18-year-old says that she is driven by “a hunger to win every single match I play” — and next in her sights is Maria Sakkari, the physical and aggressive Greek...
Read the full story
THE GAME DAILY | HENRY WINTER
Wenger’s World Cup plan ignores financial sacrifices of match-going fans
new
Arsène Wenger’s proposal for a biennial World Cup could well receive the go-ahead from Fifa in December because of the financial benefits to confederations around the world. Europe is the epicentre of resistance to Wenger’s plan, not least from clubs, but African and Asian support looks already assured. The traditionalists rightly demur at...
Read the full story
The documentary focuses Schumacher’s period with Benetton, where he won the world title in 1994 and 1995
FORMULA ONE
Schumacher loved to drive — but he lived for his family
Mick Schumacher is sitting in a brightly lit room, his eyes slightly glazed as he speaks openly about his father for the first time. Mick was 14 when he and his father were skiing in France and Michael hit his head on a rock. The seven-times world champion has not been seen in public since and, other than that he is...
Read the full story
CYCLING | MATT DICKINSON
Forget Tour for now and marvel in the diversity of Pidcock’s ambition
new

Raducanu is only the third woman outside the top 100 to make a US Open semi-final
TENNIS | STUART FRASER
Raducanu wins again to reach US Open semi-final
Kane’s goal was his 41st for England but only his second from outside the box — the other was against Nigeria in June 2018 in a friendly
FOOTBALL | HENRY WINTER
Southgate again hesitates in the face of a turning tide

CRICKET | MIKE ATHERTON
India’s pace revolution can provide template for an English spin revival
Shortly before the fourth Test at the Kia Oval, India added another member of their touring party to their official...
Read the full story
Phillips impressed again in midfield for Southgate’s side
FOOTBALL | PAUL JOYCE
Phillips takes another big stride forward – but he can still give more
Kalvin Phillips was little more than a hunch a year ago. Gareth Southgate had taken to the midfielder’s drive and...
Read the full story
show more
Times2
Candida Crewe with her sons Casper, Conor and Erskine
I broke free of my family’s Oxbridge obsession
Cambridge professor Mary Beard says we’re education snobs. I was too, says Candida Crewe, until I failed to get into Oxford. And my sons didn’t even try

Prince Andrew and Balmoral Castle
Prince Andrew’s retreat (from lawyers)
Andrew has left Windsor for Balmoral as US attorneys circle, reports Damian Whitworth. It’s the perfect discreet hideaway, says Hugo Vickers

Albert Roux, Emily Roux and Michel Roux
THE TABLE
‘Losing my father and uncle . . . Nothing prepares you for that grief’
After the worst time of his life, Michel Roux talks to Michael Odell about what his relatives taught him, and a generation of young chefs, about French food

“A lump of clay might not get the chatter flowing like wine does”
I tried Antony Gormley’s ice-breaking idea. It ended badly
There’s an art to good dinner parties, says Jeremy Langmead

From left: Loni Edwards with her miniature French bulldog, Chloe; Ben Rowell and his dog, Dublin, photographed in the Althorp pub, London.
SOCIAL MEDIA
Can I really make my cockapoo #famous?
Stephanie McKeon as Anna, dancing with Oliver Ormson as Prince Hans, hints mischievously at unDisney-like desires
THEATRE | FIRST NIGHT
Frozen — a visual feast to warm even the coldest of hearts
Marina Abramovic with her partner Todd Eckert
ARTS
Marina Abramovic: My key to happiness: a young lover, dirty jokes and magic crystals

SOPHIA MONEY-COUTTS
The Cotswolds might now be the silliest spot in the country
There’s trouble in the Cotswolds, where a gazillionaire has upset locals with his plan to build 24 houses, a shop, a...
Read the full story
Wolf Alice
MUSIC
Who will win the 2021 Mercury Prize?
Full disclosure: I am a judge on the Mercury Prize. Addendum to that disclosure: I have absolutely no idea who will...
Read the full story
show more
Register
OBITUARY
Ernst van de Wetering
Controversial and prickly Dutch expert on Rembrandt whose word on what constituted an authentic masterpiece was regarded as final

When Ernst van de Wetering began studying Rembrandt there were 624 works attributed to the 17th-century Dutch artist. By the time he had finished, the number had fallen to 340 — including 70 that Wetering himself had verified. “My judgment is my judgment,” he shrugged at those who dared to question his authority. “But I’m not from the Rembrandt police and I don’t feel...
Read the full story
Van de Wetering at the Staatliche Museen in Berlin where he curated a Rembrandt exhibition in 2006
Scotto leaves court after being convicted in 1979
OBITUARY
Anthony Scotto
Urbane, progressive, immaculately dressed and impeccably connected, Anthony Scotto seemed the model of a modern union...
Read the full story
Travers performing in 2017. He preferred small clubs
OBITUARY
Brian Travers

FROM THE ARCHIVE
The offer to Ireland

ANNOUNCEMENTS
Births, marriages and deaths
GOD raised us from death to life with Christ Jesus, and he has given us a place beside Christ in heaven. God did this...
Read the full story

COURT CIRCULAR
September 8, 2021
Clarence House
8th September, 2021
The Prince Charles, Duke of Rothesay and The Duchess of Rothesay this...
Read the full story
show more
Puzzles
Crossword Club
Play now

Times Concise No 8692
Play now

Times Quick Cryptic No 1958
Play now

Times Cryptic No 28078
Play now

Concise Quintagram No 1103
Play now

Cryptic Quintagram No 1103
Play now

show more



Law
Oxford fury over QC’s Cayman case
Defining the Bar’s “cab rank” rule can involve nimble thinking but one simple explanation may stand above all others. “I’m a black taxi, plying for hire,” said Horace Rumpole, John Mortimer’s much-loved fictional criminal barrister, “I’m bound to accept anyone, however repulsive, who waves me down and asks for a lift.” Mortimer is likely to be smiling wryly from the...
Read the full story
Dinah Rose, inset, president of Magdalen College, represented the Cayman Islands in a defence of its ban on gay marriage
Little Mix in May accepting their Brit award, which was sponsored by Mastercard
‘US-style’ Mastercard case looms
Millions of Mastercard customers are closer to a £300 payout from the company after a tribunal gave the green light...
Read the full story
Singapore is investing in its dispute resolution system
OUT OF COURT
City’s canes out for No 10

CARTOON
Queen’s Counsel, September 9, 2021

LAWYER OF THE WEEK
Andrew Lord, who won a case for a six-year-old primary schoolboy who had been sexually assaulted by a classmate
Andrew Lord, an associate at Leigh Day, acted for six-year-old primary schoolboy “Joel”, who has been awarded...
Read the full story

COMMENT
Accountability is key to unravelling Post Office scandal
Post Office executives oversaw the UK’s biggest miscarriage of justice by introducing a flawed computer accounting...
Read the full story
show more
Scotland
Covid spread slows but hospitals feel the strain
Nicola Sturgeon has said the spread of coronavirus is slowing in Scotland but warned of severe pressure on the NHS as hospitals begin halting non-emergency surgeries amid “unprecedented demand”. Health boards have recorded one of the biggest daily patient influxes since the start of the pandemic...
Read the full story
SNP puts promised state-owned energy company on back burner
An SNP pledge to create a state-owned energy company has been abandoned after almost £500,000 was wasted on the plan. Nicola Sturgeon announced the policy to set up a publicly owned supplier, with the aim of helping people struggling with their bills, during her party conference in 2017. The first minister promised the renewable energy...
Read the full story
Janey Godley apologised but said some offensive remarks had been faked
I have no excuse for my offensive tweets, SNP’s comic admits
Janey Godley, a comic hired to front a Scottish government campaign to take precautions against Covid-19, has apologised for using highly offensive language on Twitter as it emerged that she has been paid £12,000 by taxpayers for the campaign. Godley apologised for “horridly offensive” jokes using terms with...
Read the full story
Record heat for Scotland — now come the storms
The Firth of Forth basked in unexpectedly warm temperatures yesterday
Ian Blackford said that the hike in national insurance would hit the poor
SNP vote against ‘austerity 2.0’ plan to up household tax
The National Care Service in Scotland proposes more for free than is currently on offer
Analysis: What do the elderly care plans mean in Scotland?
Shirley-Anne Somerville, the Scottish education secretary, said that the OECD comments were “commentary” and not recommendations
Scottish education ‘too political’ and exams need reform, report finds
Student paramedics train to deal with coronavirus patiends in Glasgow, one of the top Covid hotspots in the country
CORONAVIRUS
Scotland has 17 of top 20 Covid hotspots
show more
Ireland
More staff promised as schools struggle to deal with Covid outbreaks
The HSE is to assign more staff to help schools struggling to deal a significant number of Covid-19 outbreaks and the thousands of children required to stay away from the classroom. Up to 14,000 children are out of school as a result of being close contacts of confirmed cases, according to the health service. Principals of both primary and secondary schools have said...
Read the full story
Norma Foley, the education minister, said the Department of Education would “not be found wanting”
WhatsApp has a support team in the Dublin offices of Facebook but would not say if it was involved in moderating messages
WhatsApp refuses to say if team in Dublin can see ‘secure’ messages
WhatsApp has admitted that staff can view content in chats reported by users but denied that the practice clashed...
Read the full story
Mary Lou McDonald said “nobody believes” the version of events given by Simon Coveney in the Katherine Zappone matter
Sinn Fein threaten no-confidence vote unless Coveney is sacked
Limerick’s David Reidy and Tom Condon celebrate, but Condon has spoken about removing emotion from the side’s play
Taking the emotion out of the commotion
Gardai block access on the road to Lixnaw as investigations begin into the apparent murder-suicide
Three shot dead in murder-suicide in Kerry town
Catherine Martin, the sport minister, is alleged to have shown some resistance to granting the mayor powers
Ministers ‘holding back new mayor’s powers’
show more
BACK TO TOP

GET IN TOUCH
About us
Contact us
Help
The Times Editorial Complaints
The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints
Place an announcement
Classified advertising
Display advertising
The Times corrections
The Sunday Times corrections
Careers
MORE FROM THE TIMES AND THE SUNDAY TIMES
The Times e-paper
The Sunday Times e-paper
Times Currency Services
The Sunday Times Wine Club
Times Print Gallery
The Times Archive
Times Crossword Club
Sunday Times Driving
Times+
The Sunday Times Rich List
Times Expert Traveller
Good University Guide
Schools Guide
Newsletters
Best Places to Live
Best Places to Stay
Sportswomen of the Year Awards
Times Appointments
Podcasts
Times Money Mentor
© Times Newspapers Limited 2021.

Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.

Privacy & cookie policy
Licensing
Cookie settings
Site map
Topics
Commissioning terms
Terms and conditions
IPSO logo